README.md, before:

# Cafienne Engine for CMMN 1.1

Cafienne hosts an open source Case Management Engine which natively executes the CMMN 1.1 standard.
The engine is written in Java and Scala co-operated with the Akka toolkit, backed by Cassandra and Postgres.
This technical foundation makes it a platform for building highly concurrent,
distributed, and resilient message-driven case management applications.

## 1. Introduction

The suite comprises several components, namely;

1. A multi-tenant service hosting among others a CMMN interpreter
2. The Cafienne IDE, for creating models that are interpreted by the engine
2. A basic User Interface that can help in running and debugging models

In this readme we limit to the installation of a working case engine.
After you installed the case engine we advise you to follow the [Getting Started wiki](https://github.com/cafienne/cafienne-engine/wiki/Getting-Started).

## 1.1 Installation
Currently we develop and work with the Case Service on Mac OS X and Windows.
Cassandra and Postgres configuration is the most comprehensive part of the installation.
We assume you know how to install Java, Scala and sbt, etc.

### 1.1.1 Prerequisites
1. OpenJDK 11
2. Apache Cassandra 3.x
3. Postgres 12.x
4. Scala 2.12 (http://www.scala-lang.org/download/)
5. SBT build tool >= 1.3

### 1.1.2 Case Service

#### 1.1.2.1 Installation
After you succesfully installed Cassandra and Postgres you are ready for the Case Service installation.

#### 1.1.2.2 Run the Case Service from IntelliJ
1. If you want to run Case Service from IntelliJ you have to checkout the sources directly from IntelliJ and create a new project based on these sources:

```sh
https://github.com/cafienne/cafienne-engine.git
```

2. In the Run Configuration change the VM options to:
```sh
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.port=9999
-Djava.net.preferIPv4Stack=true
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.authenticate=false
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.ssl=false
-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -Dconfig.file=local.conf
-XX:+CMSClassUnloadingEnabled -XX:+CMSPermGenSweepingEnabled
-XX:MaxPermSize=512M
-Xms256m
-Xmx1024m
-Djava.awt.headless=true
```

3. Run Case Service:

Run Main.scala:
```sh
case-service/src/main/scala/org/cafienne/service/Main.scala
```

#### 1.1.2.3 Run Case Service from the console

1. clone Case Service from github
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/cafienne/cafienne-engine.git
```

2. Build the Case Service sources (this will generate a zip containing the engine)
```sh
$ cd ./cafienne
$ sbt universal:packageBin
```

3. Copy and unpack the generated zip
``` sh
$ cp case-service/target/universal/cafienne.zip ~
$ cd ~ && unzip ~/cafienne.zip
```

4. Run the Case Service:
```sh
$ cd ~/cafienne/bin
$ ./case-service (or case-service.bat on Windows)
```

#### 1.1.2.4 Run as a Docker image

__!! This is still experimental and needs some work !!__

- This assumes you already have a running docker setup, including docker-compose
- This config will pull the images _java:latest (based on openjdk)
- The exposed ports to the host OS are changed to prevent conflicts with the Case Service and ES running
locally on the host. Add 10000 to the default ports
    - Case Service API: 28082
    - JMX: 19999

1. To build the Case Service docker image run
``` sh
$ cd ./cafienne
$ sbt docker:publishLocal
```

1.b Use the docker hub version to run cafienne. 

By default the docker hub version is pre-packed with a configuration that makes use of a number of environment 
variables in order to specify the projections database, the event database and the OpenID connect IDP used. 


PROJECTION_DB_PROFILE

Valid options are
 * slick.jdbc.PostgresProfile$
 * slick.jdbc.HsqldbProfile$
 
PROJECTION_DB_DRIVER

 * org.postgresql.Driver for Postgres
 * org.hsqldb.jdbcDriver for HSQL 
 
 
PROJECTION_DB_URL

 * "jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/projection?reWriteBatchedInserts=true"
 * jdbc:hsqldb:mem:projections
 
 
PROJECTION_DB_USER

PROJECTION_DB_PASSWORD


PROJECTION_DB_PROFILE

PROJECTION_DB_DRIVER

PROJECTION_DB_URL

PROJECTION_DB_USER

PROJECTION_DB_PASSWORD

CLUSTER_SEED_NODES

This is a list and is specified like CLUSTER_SEED_NODES.0=akka://ClusterSystem@192.168.1.55:25520 

CAFIENNE_PLATFORM_OWNERS

This is a list and is specified like CAFIENNE_PLATFORM_OWNERS.0=admin

CAFIENNE_PLATFORM_DEFAULT_TENANT
 
CAFIENNE_OIDC_CONNECT_URL

CAFIENNE_OIDC_TOKEN_URL

CAFIENNE_OIDC_KEY_URL

CAFIENNE_OIDC_AUTHORIZATION_URL

CAFIENNE_OIDC_ISSUER

CAFIENNE_CMMN_DEFINITIONS_PATH

CAFIENNE_DEBUG_EVENTS



2. Create data folders for the external data
``` sh
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/cafienne
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/cafienne/conf
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/cafienne/definitions
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/cafienne/definitions/logs
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/elasticseach
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/elasticseach/config
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/elasticseach/config/scripts
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/elasticseach/data
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/elasticseach/plugins
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/elasticseach/logs
```

3. Copy the  `cafienne.conf.docker` file to the `~/docker-data/cafienne/conf` folder
``` sh
$ cp ./cafienne/run/case-service/cafienne.conf.docker ~/docker-data/cafienne/conf/local.conf
```

4. Press `ctrl-C` to shutdown the containers

## 1.2 FAQ

1.2.1 I get a log4J timeout error, what to do?
Answer: Increase the timeout setting which is 5 seconds by default. Go to local.conf or application.conf and add the following setting which you can find below the loggers entry.
```sh
logger-startup-timeout = 10s
```

## 1.3 Contribution Process

This project uses the [C4 process](https://rfc.zeromq.org/spec:42/C4/) for all code changes. "Everyone, without distinction or discrimination, SHALL have an equal right to become a Contributor under the terms of this contract."

## 1.4 Getting started
After you installed the Case Service you are ready to start building and running your first demo CMMN Case Model.
You can read the [Getting Started wiki](https://github.com/cafienne/cafienne-engine/wiki/Getting-Started) to learn how to use the Case Service.

## 1.5 License

Free use of this software is granted under the terms of the Mozilla Public License 2.0. For details see the file `LICENSE` included with the distribution.

All the documentation is covered by the CC0 license *(do whatever you want with it - public domain)*.

[![CC0](http://i.creativecommons.org/p/zero/1.0/88x31.png)](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

To the extent possible under law, [Cafienne B.V.](http://cafienne.io) has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.

Commit message:

Configuration that works with postgres

README.md, after:

# Cafienne Engine for CMMN 1.1

Cafienne hosts an open source Case Management Engine which natively executes the CMMN 1.1 standard.
The engine is written in Java and Scala co-operated with the Akka toolkit, backed by Cassandra and Postgres.
This technical foundation makes it a platform for building highly concurrent,
distributed, and resilient message-driven case management applications.

## 1. Introduction

The suite comprises several components, namely;

1. A multi-tenant service hosting among others a CMMN interpreter
2. The Cafienne IDE, for creating models that are interpreted by the engine
2. A basic User Interface that can help in running and debugging models

In this readme we limit to the installation of a working case engine.
After you installed the case engine we advise you to follow the [Getting Started wiki](https://github.com/cafienne/cafienne-engine/wiki/Getting-Started).

## 1.1 Installation
Currently we develop and work with the Case Service on Mac OS X and Windows.
Cassandra and Postgres configuration is the most comprehensive part of the installation.
We assume you know how to install Java, Scala and sbt, etc.

### 1.1.1 Prerequisites
1. OpenJDK 11
2. Apache Cassandra 3.x
3. Postgres 12.x
4. Scala 2.12 (http://www.scala-lang.org/download/)
5. SBT build tool >= 1.3

### 1.1.2 Case Service

#### 1.1.2.1 Installation
After you succesfully installed Cassandra and Postgres you are ready for the Case Service installation.

#### 1.1.2.2 Run the Case Service from IntelliJ
1. If you want to run Case Service from IntelliJ you have to checkout the sources directly from IntelliJ and create a new project based on these sources:

```sh
https://github.com/cafienne/cafienne-engine.git
```

2. In the Run Configuration change the VM options to:
```sh
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.port=9999
-Djava.net.preferIPv4Stack=true
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.authenticate=false
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.ssl=false
-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -Dconfig.file=local.conf
-XX:+CMSClassUnloadingEnabled -XX:+CMSPermGenSweepingEnabled
-XX:MaxPermSize=512M
-Xms256m
-Xmx1024m
-Djava.awt.headless=true
```

3. Run Case Service:

Run Main.scala:
```sh
case-service/src/main/scala/org/cafienne/service/Main.scala
```

#### 1.1.2.3 Run Case Service from the console

1. clone Case Service from github
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/cafienne/cafienne-engine.git
```

2. Build the Case Service sources (this will generate a zip containing the engine)
```sh
$ cd ./cafienne
$ sbt universal:packageBin
```

3. Copy and unpack the generated zip
``` sh
$ cp case-service/target/universal/cafienne.zip ~
$ cd ~ && unzip ~/cafienne.zip
```

4. Run the Case Service:
```sh
$ cd ~/cafienne/bin
$ ./case-service (or case-service.bat on Windows)
```

#### 1.1.2.4 Run as a Docker image

__!! This is still experimental and needs some work !!__

- This assumes you already have a running docker setup, including docker-compose
- This config will pull the images _java:latest (based on openjdk)
- The exposed ports to the host OS are changed to prevent conflicts with the Case Service and ES running
locally on the host. Add 10000 to the default ports
    - Case Service API: 28082
    - JMX: 19999

1. To build the Case Service docker image run
``` sh
$ cd ./cafienne
$ sbt docker:publishLocal
```

##### Use the docker hub version to run cafienne. 

By default the docker hub version is pre-packed with a configuration that makes use of a number of environment 
variables in order to specify the projections database, the event database and the OpenID connect IDP used. 

At this moment Postgres is supported as database out of the box. By overriding the configuration, its possible to
have different setups as supported by slick and the akka-persistence drivers.

###### Run the container with environment settings
 
PROJECTION_DB_URL

 * "jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/projection?reWriteBatchedInserts=true"
 
 
PROJECTION_DB_USER

PROJECTION_DB_PASSWORD

EVENT_DB_URL

 * "jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/event?reWriteBatchedInserts=true"
 
 
EVENT_DB_USER

EVENT_DB_PASSWORD


CLUSTER_SEED_NODES

This is a list and is specified like CLUSTER_SEED_NODES.0=akka://ClusterSystem@192.168.1.55:25520 

CAFIENNE_PLATFORM_OWNERS

This is a list and is specified like CAFIENNE_PLATFORM_OWNERS.0=admin

CAFIENNE_PLATFORM_DEFAULT_TENANT
 
CAFIENNE_OIDC_CONNECT_URL

CAFIENNE_OIDC_TOKEN_URL

CAFIENNE_OIDC_KEY_URL

CAFIENNE_OIDC_AUTHORIZATION_URL

CAFIENNE_OIDC_ISSUER

CAFIENNE_CMMN_DEFINITIONS_PATH

CAFIENNE_DEBUG_EVENTS

###### Use of a custom configuration

1. Create data folders for the external data
``` sh
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/cafienne
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/cafienne/conf
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/cafienne/definitions
$ mkdir ~/docker-data/cafienne/definitions/logs
```

2. Copy the  `cafienne.conf.docker` file to the `~/docker-data/cafienne/conf` folder
``` sh
$ cp ./cafienne/run/case-service/cafienne.conf.docker ~/docker-data/cafienne/conf/local.conf
```

4. Press `ctrl-C` to shutdown the containers

## 1.2 FAQ

1.2.1 I get a log4J timeout error, what to do?
Answer: Increase the timeout setting which is 5 seconds by default. Go to local.conf or application.conf and add the following setting which you can find below the loggers entry.
```sh
logger-startup-timeout = 10s
```

## 1.3 Contribution Process

This project uses the [C4 process](https://rfc.zeromq.org/spec:42/C4/) for all code changes. "Everyone, without distinction or discrimination, SHALL have an equal right to become a Contributor under the terms of this contract."

## 1.4 Getting started
After you installed the Case Service you are ready to start building and running your first demo CMMN Case Model.
You can read the [Getting Started wiki](https://github.com/cafienne/cafienne-engine/wiki/Getting-Started) to learn how to use the Case Service.

## 1.5 License

Free use of this software is granted under the terms of the Mozilla Public License 2.0. For details see the file `LICENSE` included with the distribution.

All the documentation is covered by the CC0 license *(do whatever you want with it - public domain)*.

[![CC0](http://i.creativecommons.org/p/zero/1.0/88x31.png)](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

To the extent possible under law, [Cafienne B.V.](http://cafienne.io) has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.
